README.md, before:

# YouTube Transcript MCP Server
[![Python Application](https://github.com/jkawamoto/mcp-youtube-transcript/actions/workflows/python-app.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jkawamoto/mcp-youtube-transcript/actions/workflows/python-app.yaml)
[![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/jkawamoto/mcp-youtube-transcript)](https://github.com/jkawamoto/mcp-youtube-transcript/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)
[![Ruff](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astral-sh/ruff/main/assets/badge/v2.json)](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff)
[![smithery badge](https://smithery.ai/badge/@jkawamoto/mcp-youtube-transcript)](https://smithery.ai/server/@jkawamoto/mcp-youtube-transcript)

This MCP server retrieves transcripts for given YouTube video URLs.

<a href="https://glama.ai/mcp/servers/of3kwtmlqp"><img width="380" height="200" src="https://glama.ai/mcp/servers/of3kwtmlqp/badge" alt="YouTube Transcript Server MCP server" /></a>

## Tools
This MCP server provides the following tools:

### `get_transcript`
Fetches the transcript of a specified YouTube video.

#### Parameters
- **url** *(string)*: The full URL of the YouTube video. This field is required.
- **lang** *(string, optional)*: The desired language for the transcript. Defaults to `en` if not specified.

## Installation
> [!NOTE]
> You'll need [`uv`](https://docs.astral.sh/uv) installed on your system to use `uvx` command.

### For codename goose
Please refer to this tutorial for detailed installation instructions:
[YouTube Transcript Extension](https://block.github.io/goose/docs/mcp/youtube-transcript-mcp).

### For Claude Desktop
To configure this server for Claude Desktop, edit the `claude_desktop_config.json` file with the following entry under
`mcpServers`:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "youtube-transcript": {
      "command": "uvx",
      "args": [
        "--from",
        "git+https://github.com/jkawamoto/mcp-youtube-transcript",
        "mcp-youtube-transcript"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```
After editing, restart the application.
For more information,
see: [For Claude Desktop Users - Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/quickstart/user).

#### Installing via Smithery
To install Youtube Transcript for Claude Desktop automatically via [Smithery](https://smithery.ai/server/@jkawamoto/mcp-youtube-transcript):

```bash
npx -y @smithery/cli install @jkawamoto/mcp-youtube-transcript --client claude
```

## Using Proxy Servers
In environments where access to YouTube is restricted, you can use proxy servers.

When using [Webshare](https://www.webshare.io/), set the username and password for the Residential Proxy using either
the environment variables `WEBSHARE_PROXY_USERNAME` and `WEBSHARE_PROXY_PASSWORD`,
or the command line arguments `--webshare-proxy-username` and `--webshare-proxy-password`.

When using other proxy servers, set the proxy server URL using either the environment variables `HTTP_PROXY` or
`HTTPS_PROXY`, or the command line arguments `--http-proxy` or `--https-proxy`.

For more details, please visit:
[Working around IP bans - YouTube Transcript API](https://github.com/jdepoix/youtube-transcript-api?tab=readme-ov-file#working-around-ip-bans-requestblocked-or-ipblocked-exception).

## License

This application is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.

Commit message:

docs: enhance Smithery installation section in README
Expanded the README with detailed instructions for using the Smithery CLI, including a command to list supported clients and a link to its official documentation.

README.md, after:

# YouTube Transcript MCP Server
[![Python Application](https://github.com/jkawamoto/mcp-youtube-transcript/actions/workflows/python-app.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jkawamoto/mcp-youtube-transcript/actions/workflows/python-app.yaml)
[![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/jkawamoto/mcp-youtube-transcript)](https://github.com/jkawamoto/mcp-youtube-transcript/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)
[![Ruff](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astral-sh/ruff/main/assets/badge/v2.json)](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff)
[![smithery badge](https://smithery.ai/badge/@jkawamoto/mcp-youtube-transcript)](https://smithery.ai/server/@jkawamoto/mcp-youtube-transcript)

This MCP server retrieves transcripts for given YouTube video URLs.

<a href="https://glama.ai/mcp/servers/of3kwtmlqp"><img width="380" height="200" src="https://glama.ai/mcp/servers/of3kwtmlqp/badge" alt="YouTube Transcript Server MCP server" /></a>

## Tools
This MCP server provides the following tools:

### `get_transcript`
Fetches the transcript of a specified YouTube video.

#### Parameters
- **url** *(string)*: The full URL of the YouTube video. This field is required.
- **lang** *(string, optional)*: The desired language for the transcript. Defaults to `en` if not specified.

## Installation
> [!NOTE]
> You'll need [`uv`](https://docs.astral.sh/uv) installed on your system to use `uvx` command.

### For codename goose
Please refer to this tutorial for detailed installation instructions:
[YouTube Transcript Extension](https://block.github.io/goose/docs/mcp/youtube-transcript-mcp).

### For Claude Desktop
To configure this server for Claude Desktop, edit the `claude_desktop_config.json` file with the following entry under
`mcpServers`:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "youtube-transcript": {
      "command": "uvx",
      "args": [
        "--from",
        "git+https://github.com/jkawamoto/mcp-youtube-transcript",
        "mcp-youtube-transcript"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```
After editing, restart the application.
For more information,
see: [For Claude Desktop Users - Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/quickstart/user).

### Installing via Smithery
The [Smithery CLI](https://github.com/smithery-ai/cli) enables the installation of MCP servers on various clients.

For instance, to install this server for Claude Desktop, execute the following command:

```bash
npx -y @smithery/cli install @jkawamoto/mcp-youtube-transcript --client claude
```

To view the list of clients supported by the Smithery CLI, use this command:

```bash
npx -y @smithery/cli list clients
```

Refer to the [Smithery CLI documentation](https://github.com/smithery-ai/cli) for additional details.


## Using Proxy Servers
In environments where access to YouTube is restricted, you can use proxy servers.

When using [Webshare](https://www.webshare.io/), set the username and password for the Residential Proxy using either
the environment variables `WEBSHARE_PROXY_USERNAME` and `WEBSHARE_PROXY_PASSWORD`,
or the command line arguments `--webshare-proxy-username` and `--webshare-proxy-password`.

When using other proxy servers, set the proxy server URL using either the environment variables `HTTP_PROXY` or
`HTTPS_PROXY`, or the command line arguments `--http-proxy` or `--https-proxy`.

For more details, please visit:
[Working around IP bans - YouTube Transcript API](https://github.com/jdepoix/youtube-transcript-api?tab=readme-ov-file#working-around-ip-bans-requestblocked-or-ipblocked-exception).

## License

This application is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.
